Minnesota State Patrol flights section
in the st. Paul fire department formed a
relationship just about two years ago
when when I approached the fire
department and asked about their
availability to assist us with the
aerial rescue team from the helicopter
and enthusiastically the fire department
responded and provided us with some
personnel to do that we began our
training in June 2011 and today we have
have a trained team that can perform
rescue anywhere in the state of
Minnesota
the State Patrol provides a helicopter
and the pilot and the st. Paul fire
department provides the rescuers and
paramedics and the crew chief and
informs a great relationship between the
two agencies well I'm one of three
person rescue crew there's two rescuers
and myself my responsibility and the
helicopter is to double-check all the
the rigging and everything before the
rescuers actually exit the aircraft and
to coordinate their their rappel and
coming in for picking a patient up
basically the eyes for the pilot I guide
him in and help to put the patient down
in the right location or what the
rescuer down in the right location to
extract the patient
the st. Paul fire department has three
different shifts and we so we trained
three times a month and that does two
things that may ensures that the fire
department personnel is getting once a
month training in addition to that by
using those three shifts it ensures that
each of my pilots gets through the
rotation each month of providing the the
pilots side in keeping their technique
and proficiency in the helicopter for
the rescue mission we we have trained
extensively at the st. Paul Airport
we've trained out at Afton State Park in
in tighter areas through trees we've
trained down by the river and lifted
people off the banks of rift rivers and
just our whole mission is that remote
access which is difficult for other
people in the EMS world the repellers
rescue it and they bring what's called a
full Monday and the helicopter leaves
while they assess the patient and
provide any any care that the patient
needs and then they package the patient
in the Bollman bag and then the
helicopter comes back and when the
rescuers are ready and we focus a
patient in the Bowman bag and the
rescuer to the long line and we haul
them out
the program is available 24 hours a day
7 days a week is based on a Holman field
in st. Paul which is why it makes us a
nice partnership between the fire
department in the State Police
we covered the state of Minnesota where
the Minnesota State Patrol and through a
mutual aid agreement with the city of
st. Paul there the st. Paul firefighters
are allowed to go with us up to Lake
County and Cook County into the Boundary
Waters to assist those local agencies in
a remote rescue well this program is
important because there are situations
where people get into trouble and they
need to be rescued and access to them
can take an extremely long time and in a
life-threatening situation time is of
the essence we're able to get in in a
matter of minutes into a location that
it might take several hours for to get
there for ground through the chute there